Web service is a technology to communicate one programming language with another. 
For example, java programming language can interact with PHP and .Net by using web services. 
In other words, web service provides a way to achieve interoperability.

A Web Service is can be defined by following ways:
	is a client server application or application component for communication.
	method of communication between two devices over network.
	is a software system for interoperable machine to machine communication.
	is a collection of standards or protocols for exchanging information between two devices or application.
java, .net or PHP applications can communicate with other applications through web service over the network. 
For example, java application can interact with Java, .Net and PHP applications. 
So web service is a language independent way of communication.

There are mainly two types of web services.
1.SOAP web services.
2.RESTful web services.

Web Service Components
There are three major web service components.
1.SOAP
	is an acronym for Simple Object Access Protocol.
	is a XML-based protocol for accessing web services.
	is a W3C recommendation for communication between applications.
	is XML based, so it is platform independent and language independent. 
		In other words, it can be used with Java, .Net or PHP language on any platform.
2.WSDL
	is an acronym for Web Services Description Language.
	is a xml document containing information about web services such as method name, method parameter and how to access it.
	is a part of UDDI. It acts as a interface between web service applications.
	is pronounced as wiz-dull.
3.UDD
	is an acronym for Universal Description, Discovery and Integration.
	is a XML based framework for describing, discovering and integrating web services.
	is a directory of web service interfaces described by WSDL, containing information about web services.

Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)
Service Oriented Architecture or SOA is a design pattern. 
It is designed to provide services to other applications through protocol.
It is a concept only and not tied to any programming language or platform.

Web services is a technology of SOA most likely.

Service
A service is well-defined, self-contained function that represents unit of functionality. 
A service can exchange information from another service. It is not dependent on the state of another service.

Service Connections
The figure given below illustrates the service oriented architecture. 
Service consumer sends service request to the service provider and service provider sends the service response to the service consumer. 
The service connection is understandable to both service consumer and service provider.
